
Aim: Define a RESTful accepts the details to be stored in a database & performs 
CRUD operation.

1. Click on Window menu and click on Projects, Files & Services to open it.
2. Right click on Java DB and then click on Start Server to start the server.
3. Now expand Java DB and right click on database name which is Sample or SampleDB. Then click 
on connect to connect the database with server.
4. Now create a 2 table in database. 
For both table the first column which is “id” set as primary key.
• The first table name is StudentData & column names are: id, name, college.
• The second table name is Product & column names are: id, product name, information, number
5. Now create a web application with the name CRUD_Operation
6. A window willopen like following pic.
7. Create an entity class from database. Right click on project name -> New -> Entity Class from 
database.
8. A window will appear like bellow pic. Select the Data Source either Sample or SampleDB in which 
your tables are created. Add all tables & click on Next.
9. Now provide the package name is model.
10. Click on Next & then Finish.
11. Right click on project name and create JSF Pages from Entity Classes.
Right click on project name -> New -> JSF Pages from Entity Classes
12. Select all Entity Classes and click on Add button and then Next button on below.
13. A window like below will appear on the screen. Enter the data into that window as entered in 
below pic and click on Next button.
14. Now click on Finish.
15. Right click on project name and create RESTful Web Services from Entity Classes.
Right click on project name -> New -> RESTful Web Services from Entity Classes
16. A window like below will appear on the screen. Select the entity class & click on Next button.
17. Enter the data into that window as entered in below pic and click on Finish button.
18. Now right click on web application name and Deploy it.
19. Now right click on project name and run it
20. A window will open in browser like below.